---
layout: post
---

<h1>Post a day</h1>

<p>
I have read they try to write daily, and I always thought this was a bit silly, even if laudable. The idea of trying to take something and make it a habit is commendable. Still, I am not sure anyone will have high-quality writing every day. Furthermore, my state of mind changes so often it is difficult for me to do anything once a day. 
  It is just not natural for me, even if I have known plenty of people who seemed to thrive on daily habits for decades.
</p>

<p>
However, I am going to try to do just this. Why? There are three goals I have that even if I fail at this task, I feel the failure is irrelevant and the benefits are potentially significant:</p>

<ol>
  <li>Focus my thoughts. I do not believe I can do this with a bunch of long rambling posts just due to lack of time, so I hope the result will be shorter and focused on little ideas that stand on their own. I believe many of the most excellent and most approachable writing is like this.</li>
  <li>Practice my writing in English. My personal life is more dominated by French and periods Spanish, this leaves little time for English, and I am starting to lose touch.</li>
  <li>Capture some of my better ideas. Sometimes I have an idea that resonates, and if I do not write it down, it effectively becomes lost. Maybe it stays with that group of people, but it doesnù't continues to grow too rapidly.</li>
 </ol>
 
 <p>In light of the above, this is it for today. Thank you to those of you reading this.</p>
